##Project Idea: Real-Time Weather Data Stream Processor
Overview:
In this project, I created a system that streams weather data from a public API, processes it using Apache Kafka, and stores it in a database (sql server) for further analysis. I used Docker to set up my Kafka environment.

##Components of the Project:
Weather Data Producer: A simple Python script that fetches weather data from a public API (like OpenWeatherMap) and sends it to a Kafka topic.
Kafka: Apache Kafka will be set up using Docker to handle the messaging.
Consumer Application: Another Python script that reads from the Kafka topic, processes the data, and stores it in a PostgreSQL database.
Database: SQL Server will be used to store the weather data.

##Step-by-Step Implementation:
##Step 1: Set Up Docker for Kafka
Install Docker: Ensure you have Docker installed on your machine. You can download it from Docker's official website.

Create a Docker Compose File: Create a docker-compose.yml file to define your Kafka and Zookeeper services.Refer my docker-compose.yml file

Run Docker Compose: In the terminal, navigate to the directory containing the docker-compose.yml file and run:

docker-compose up -d
This command will start Zookeeper and Kafka.

##Step 2: Create the Weather Data Producer
Install Required Libraries: Create a virtual environment and install the necessary Python libraries.

bash
Copy code
mkdir weather-data-producer
cd weather-data-producer
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # or venv\Scripts\activate on Windows
pip install kafka-python requests
Write the Producer Script: Check the producer.py file

##Step 3: Create the Consumer Application
Refer consumer.py file, and use the required credentials to connect to sql server.

##Step 4: Testing the Project
Start the Docker services (if not already running):

docker-compose up -d

Run the Producer to start sending weather data by running:
python producer.py in the terminal

Run the Consumer to start processing and storing data in sql server:
python consumer.py in the terminal

Check Data in SQL server to verify that the weather data is being stored correctly.

## obtain your OpenWeather API key, follow these steps:

Step 1: Create an Account
Visit the OpenWeather Website: Go to the OpenWeather website.
Sign Up: Click on the Sign Up button in the upper right corner. You can sign up using your email address or with a social media account like Google or GitHub.
Step 2: Confirm Your Email
After signing up, you will receive a confirmation email. Follow the instructions in the email to verify your account.
Step 3: Get Your API Key
Log In: Once your account is verified, log in to your OpenWeather account.
Go to API Keys: After logging in, navigate to the API keys section. You can find this in your account dashboard.